Now's the time.
The time to build.
Not everything that's built endures.
Not everything that's built remains.
Some things fall under pressure.
Some things fade with time.
Will what we build now endure?
Will what we build speak through the next generation.
We must be diligent, determined, and dedicated.
After all, his church must be built to last.
What have you believed that this morning?
And then, God's not asking us to build a little sand castle.
God's not asking us to build things with little flimsy.
He's not even asking us to make a gingerbread house.
Go on, have you know a gingerbread house doesn't last?
But what God's asking us to do is make an investment.
that surpasses us, that speaks into the next generation, that will continuously change eternity in the hearts and the lives of people.
See, if we can invest in a generation now, that in turn will speak into the following generation, which will speak into the following generation, and you see this domino effect occur, and lives are continuously changed for God's glory.
Many of you are here today because somebody spent time investing in you.
Somebody spent time praying for you.
Somebody spent time speaking into your life, pointing out the things that need fixed or even the things that you need to change in your life.
Maybe you even had those people that encouraged you along the way.
I don't know about your life, but I can think of countless people in different moments of my life that were
that were really inspirational and helping me to be where I am today in my relationship with Christ and my leadership and my leading of the church.
It's all due to people that spoke into my life, not yesterday, but generations ago.
See, what we're building here at encountered church is not a temporary bandaid for a temporary fix.
But what we're building here is his church that will be built to last.
We're in week two of a series right now that we're simply calling built to last.
And in this series, we're taking some time to not only look at the call that God set for us, we learned this last week, what did Jesus say?
He says, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
will not conquer it, will not cause it to flutter if you would.
But what God's calling us to do now is step into that assignment.
Step into that calling and simply do the natural so that he can do the supernatural.
I share with the worship team and some of the leaders before church is born as we gather together typically every Sunday morning just kind of get ourselves on the same page.
And I share with them that if we as the church
will do the natural, God will respond with the supernatural.
How can I say that?
Well, I see it numerous times occurring, not only in the Old Testament, but also in the New Testament.
You see the day of Pentecost, they were gathered together.
They were simply having a meeting and spending time in prayer.
They were doing the natural side of things.
They were being obedient.
Jesus said, don't leave Jerusalem until the promise comes.
They were meeting together
praying, seeking the face of God.
That's the natural, but in response, God showed up with a supernatural.
We see in the Old Testament, time and time again, where people, the church, oftentimes, would gather together and do the natural, and God in response, would show up in a way that blew their minds, sometimes even pausing the service because his presence was so strong.
I wonder today, what would happen
If we, the body of Christ, would choose to do the natural to the best of our ability.
See, a lot of times, oftentimes, we'll do the natural when it's convenient.
Come on, somebody.
We'll do the natural when it costs us nothing.
We'll do the natural when it's easy.
But I don't believe that's what God's calling is to do.
Did you know building things is hard work?
Come on, those of you in construction, give me a shout out.
Building things is hard work.
Man, I've learned that recently.
I shared with you last week putting this flooring down man alive.
That's hard work.
But God's calling us to be willing to do even what's difficult so that His plan, His process, His desire is fulfilled.
But He chooses to use
You and me.
Hey, let me introduce myself.
My name is Pastor Chris.
My wife and I have the honor and the privilege of leading what God's doing through encounter church here in Sedalia, in Warrensburg, in Lincoln.
This morning we even have one of our very own speaking at another church nearby.
So we are like, we are reaching the whole region for the cause of Christ.
And I believe that's what God's called us as a church to do.
If you're just joining us, you're checking things out.
And we are honored that you're here as the girl said a while ago, welcome home.
Maybe you're looking for a church home.
I would say your search is over.
You don't need to look any further.
You have found a group of people that love you.
Whether you're here in person or you're watching online, we are honored that you're with us this morning.
Give us an opportunity to get to know you.
Catch me in the lobby.
Pause us just for a moment.
You may have to tell me your name a few times over the course of a couple of weeks, but eventually it'll stick in this old nogget of mine.
But I want to get to know you and build a relationship
with you.
Those of you that are online, again, help us get to know you as well.
Give some shout outs, put some posts in that chat so we can make sure that we see that you were there this morning.
All right.
Well, last Sunday, we kicked off this series that we're simply calling built to last.
And this series, what we're doing is we're simply
giving God what he deserves.
We're going and digging down deep, realizing that God's not looking for what's easy.
God's looking for what's best.
It's going to take intentionality on every one of our parts.
What would happen at a job site?
Those of you that are in construction this morning, what would happen on the job site if suddenly everybody was working hard, but you had a couple people on the sideline that were just kind of holding a shovel looking around.
They probably wouldn't last very long, would they?
They would probably have a conversation with their boss rather quickly.
Why?
Because everyone has to pull their weight.
Everyone has to do the hard work.
And I believe that's what God has for the church as well.
Listen carefully.
If we are not laying a foundation inside the church,
than what we do outside these walls as we build a brand new building in just a couple of months, we'll have little to no effect on the culture around us.
Come on, let me say that again, because that should have got a bigger response.
If what we're doing in here, if we're not doing the hard work of building the foundation, if we're not doing the hard work of making ourselves available for the cause of Christ, if we're not being intentional in the process, then it doesn't matter what we build, it doesn't matter how
Incredible the building is it will have little to no effect on the culture around us because inside the foundation will crumble.
God's calling us to be a people of intentionality, a people of action.
It's time, I believe, to build His church.
We discovered last week that that's the theme that we're going to hold on to for this year.
Build.
his church.
We're going to build it physically.
We're going to build it spiritually.
We're going to build that church relationally.
We're going to do what it needs to be done because here's the reality.
The church is not just an organization engaged in religious work.
Come on, let that sink in.
The church was not created to be an organization that's just engaged in religious work.
It's a divine organism through which Jesus' life and power must operate.
Jesus said, you will do even greater things than I have done.
Wrap yourself around that.
He said, Lazarus come out and this dude came hopping out of the tomb in his grave clothes.
He spit in the mud, made a little bit of, spit in the dirt, made a little bit of mud, rubbing it on the guy's eye.
And suddenly he could see, what?
I'm not suggesting today that you go out and spit in the dirt and rub it on people.
I'm not saying that.
But Jesus said that we will do even greater things.
How is that possible?
Because we have the Holy Spirit moving in and through us.
God has called us to be a people
of action, of forward motion with Him.
Here's what I know.
If Jesus died for the lost world, then we must live to bring the world to Jesus.
Again, if Jesus died for a lost world, and we believe that He died for this world, right?
John 3 16, for God so loved the world that He sent Jesus, right?
To die on a cross,
that whoever believes in Him will not perish, will not die, but have everlasting life.
Jesus, while we were still sinners, gave Himself on the cross of Calvary to give us hope, to give us a future.
Jesus came to give us life and life more abundantly.
If He came for that sole purpose, then how can we possibly sit on the sidelines, hold the shovel and go, huh?
But can I be honest with you?
I think for too many years, that's what the church has done.
Well, praise God, I'll just go to church Sunday morning, hear the word of God.
Hallelujah.
Right?
And then we leave church, we put our relationship with Jesus on the shelf and said, I'll catch you next Sunday morning.
And we go about our week.
I honestly believe that's why our culture is in the mess that it's in.
The Bible says, if my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven.
I will heal their lands.
It doesn't say if the world will turn to me.
But too often we use that scripture and say, oh, if America would just return to its roots, if America would just return to Jesus Christ, if America would once again be one nation under God, no, no, no, no.
If the church... Oh, see, this must be inspiration for the Holy Spirit, because that's not even in my notes.
And you guys are sitting there like you've never heard this stuff before.
If my people, that's us.
We'll humble ourselves and pray.
Some of us need a little bit of humility.
Come on, we got a little prideful.
Oh, we got a little guilty of kind of shaking our fingers and people go, oh, I can't believe that you're doing that.
Can you believe what Sally did yesterday?
I saw it on their Facebook.
I saw it on her Instagram, TikTok.
Just for the record, I know it's TikTok, but TikTok's so much more fun to say.
Some of you're like, did he really say tic-tac?
Yeah.
I say, dollar-gentral too, but it's okay.
But we're so guilty of just shaking our finger, wagging that religious thought process at people that we lose sight that God's called us to be an extension of him to the world around us.
God's called us to be a people that will reach the broken.
Did you know it's not our job to fix them?
It's our job to love them.
Can I be honest?
Sometimes that's hard.
Stupid's hard to love.
Right?
Come on.
It's hard to love.
But nowhere in the Bible does it say love as God loves you unless they're stupid.
Unless they're making dumb choices.
Unless they continuously make mistakes.
Can I be honest?
Every one of us that continuously make mistakes.
Though I have says none of us are perfect.
Every one of us sin.
Every one of us falls short of God's glorious standard.
We're to love as God loves an unconditional love.
Now does that mean that we accept wrong behavior?
That's not love.
accepting wrong behaviors, not love.
But we should love them.
The way that God loves us is this.
He loves us so much that he refuses to allow us to stay the way we were.
Oh, come on, that's good stuff right there.
God loved you in the midst of your wrongdoing, but he loved you too much to leave you stuck in the mud.
He's called you, the Bible says, out of the darkness and into the light.
He's brought you out of despair into a life of hope and a future.
In fact, he says in the Word of God, it says that I know the plans that I have for you, not destruction, not death, but hope in a future.
That's the love that we are called by God's Word to offer up to those around us.
That's how things are built to last.
Again, I'm not talking about a fuzzy moment, lovey moment.
Oh, I'm just in love.
So if you guys remember junior high school, you were so in love, right?
You remember that picture you used to carry around in your wall and guys with that girl?
You're like, I'm in love with her.
You've known her two days, but I'm in love with her.
God's called us to a deeper love.
God's called us to a deeper relationship
with Him and the more that we get to know Him, the more that we love Him, the more that we spend time with Him, the more that we allow Him to pour into our lives, the more that His Spirit begins to rise up in us, the more that we begin to demonstrate Him to the world around us.
We see this occurring in the early church in the book of Acts.
Jesus has given his life on the cross.
He was placed in the tomb.
He rose from the grave.
He ascended to heaven.
He told the disciples, don't leave Jerusalem until the spirit comes or the promise comes.
The Holy Spirit falls on the day of Pentecost.
Church begins to erupt.
Thousands are coming to know the Lord every day because of the cause of Christ, because of the move of the spirit.
And now we have Acts chapter two, verse 42.
It says all the believers, come on, say all.
Look at your neighbor today and say that includes you.
All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles teaching and a fellowship and to sharing them in meals, including the Lord's Supper and to prayer.
A deep sense of all came over all of them and the apostles performed many miraculous signs and wonders.
And all come on, look at your other neighbor, the second choice, the one you don't like quite as much and say all.
And all of the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had.
They sold their property and possessions and shared the money with those in need.
They worshiped together at the temple each day, met in homes for the Lord's Supper, shared their meals with great joy and generosity.
All the while, praising God, they were worshiping God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people.
And each day, the Lord added to the church
to their fellowship, those that were being saved.
Now, last Sunday, we discussed chapter two, verse 42 briefly, but today I wanna use it as our launching pad to move us forward.
Why?
Because what we see as a response of their dedication is a church that truly began to flourish.
Now, I don't know about you, but I never would encounter church just to be a church that exists.
I never want us to be an organization that just gathers together to have a service, to hear an inspirational speech, to have a little bit of pre-speech entertainment that has some coffee in the lobby.
I never want us to become guilty of just gathering because the building's open.
My heart, my desire, God's word declares that we are to be a people with a cause.
that we are to be a people responding in action, that we are to be a people that resemble and model what God has called us to do.
And we see this in the dedication of the early church.
Numerous times in the book of Acts, we read this statement, and the Lord added to the church, He added to the fellowship, those that were being saved.
I don't know about you, but I believe that's building to last.
That's what it means to build His church.
They grew because they were connected to something larger than themselves.
Come on.
They were connected to God.
They were connected to one another.
They were connected to the mission.
They were connected to the call.
I said it last week, but I believe it warrants being said again, the days of church connectivity out of convenience must be behind us.
Three of you agree with that, Hallelujah.
It's time to pursue our relationship with God and connect Him with the church out of conviction for a greater calling.
I wonder today, as we move from the blueprints to the construction site itself, I wonder, are you ready?
Are you ready to say, Lord, I am all in?
God, I'm ready to be your church.
God, I'm ready to move forward with you because nothing that is built, not a house, not a church, not a family, not a ministry can possibly stand if the foundation is weak.
Jesus tells us in our texts from last week that he would build his church.
But now today he shows us how.
He invites us into the process as we watch the foundation of the early church begin to grow from the ground up.
After all, if the foundation is weak, again, the entire building will eventually collapse.
We must build to last.
I wanna, this morning I wanna give you four foundational pillars that we're gonna build upon.
Are you ready for them?
I wanna encourage you to take really good notes today.
Number one is this.
build on the unshakable, a church anchored in the Word.
Now what do I mean by the Word?
I'm talking about the Bible.
We're going to build on the unshakable.
We're gonna build upon the truth of God's Word.
We don't just see this as a group of fancy stories, exciting moments.
We don't see this as things we should just read or quote every now and again.
We believe that the Word of God is the foundation that we will build upon.
We're gonna talk about that in just a moment.
I wanna challenge you.
As we dive into this series, as we look at this idea of building his church, I want you to dig down deep this year.
We're going to process through a lot of areas of the building process.
I believe that God wants us to grab a hold of, and I want to encourage you, be apart.
Understand that these pillars that we'll discuss today, these are the non-negotiables.
These are the things that we will not waver upon.
There won't be a day that I'll step up here and go from this day forward.
We're no longer going to use the word of God.
That's not going to happen.
But we're going to start by building upon the truth of his word.
Here's what we must understand regarding the first pill of the Word of God.
The Bible is more than just information to acquire.
It's an anchor to hold on to.
It is what we hold.
It's what holds us secure when the winds begin to blow.
If you remember what did Jesus use when the devil began to tempt him?
The Word of God.
He said, it is written.
There's going to be moments when the wind begins to blow in your life.
There's going to be moments when temptation comes your way.
There's going to be moments when opposition rises upon you.
I want to challenge you.
Use the Word of God.
Let this be the pillar that you build your life upon.
We see that in the early church.
It says, all the believers devoted themselves to the apostles teaching two words that I want to look at here.
The first is a very important word, the first word that is used, the word all.
Why am I pausing on the word all?
It's pretty self-explanatory, right?
We understand all, that means every one of them, nobody was left out, nobody was on the sideline, but they were all engaged.
Why am I pausing here?
Because it's easy to pass the responsibility of the building process onto somebody else and miss what God's calling for our personal lives.
It's easy to say, well, we'll let the pastor
Do that.
Come on, I'm not trying to get out of work.
Those of you that know me, I'm not afraid of a little hard work.
But my responsibility, according to the Word of God Ephesians, chapter four, verse two, is to equip the saints for the ministry of the church.
My job is to give you opportunities to hand you a shovel and say, dig a spiritual hole.
to give you a skid steer.
It's never like, I don't want the shovel, I don't want the skid steer.
Come on.
My responsibility is give you that opportunity, but it's so easy for us to pass that on to somebody else and say, you know what?
They have better experience.
I said it a couple of weeks ago, God's not looking for your availability.
He's not looking for your ability.
He's not looking for your knowledge.
He just wants you.
He just wants you to say, you know what?
Lord, here I am, use me.
God, give me an opportunity to step into your calling.
If I could press a little bit more here on this idea of all, I truly believe, I don't think that the early church would have seen the supernatural growth if they had not been all in.
If they hadn't said, you know what?
We will do the natural.
We'll do what God's called us to do.
We'll offer all that we have.
Now they went pretty extensive, didn't they?
They sold everything they had.
They brought in, I'm not asking today.
This week I want you to go out and I want you to sell it all.
I've got cardboard boxes in the back room for a place to live.
Pick one up on the way out.
It'll be a great day.
I'm not asking you to do that.
But what I'm asking you is will you make yourself available to him?
The early church was all in as they built his church.
And then the second thing that I see, it says they were all devoted.
Now I would venture to say that this morning as we have gathered together in this room, if I was to ask you, please raise your hand if you're devoted to the church and devoted to the cause of Christ, the majority of us in the house would raise our hands.
There may be even some people at home that are raising their hands and yeah, that's me.
I'm devoted.
But before we really answer that question, let's take a look at what this word devoted means.
I've got a pretty extensive detailed definition.
It says simply this.
to have deep loyalty, strong affection or intense dedication to a person cause, belief or activity, often involving giving its significant time, attention, commitment, sometimes prioritizing it over other things, showing faithfulness and believing, being willing to be self-sacrificing for it.
So I wonder today, are you devoted?
That's tough.
That's tough, but that's what we saw happening in the early church.
They say, God, we see what you desire to do.
Lord, we understand your grace and your mercy are sufficient for me.
Lord, we understand your love that's never failing.
Lord, how could we not be devoted to you?
I want to challenge you as we dive into this idea of building his church.
I want to challenge you, make a commitment to God.
Lord, I'm devoted to you.
And as we're devoted to him, the natural response is we're committed to his church.
See these people who say, well, I'm devoted to God, but I don't believe in
Organized religion.
I don't believe in church.
That's a bunch of hooey.
That means you're lazy.
Come on.
Because if we're devoted to God, we're devoted to His church.
Right?
Come on, hang with me here.
He spoke to the early church.
He gave them a mandate.
He gave them a calling.
We read it last week.
He says to Peter upon this rock,
Petros, little Rock Peter, I will build my church and the gates of hell.
I will build my church on this rock, this massive rock.
I'm not gonna build it on Peter, but I'm building it on Petra, the massive rock, the firm foundation, but he's calling us his people to be the ones to build.
Why does he choose?
Now, here's a weird thing.
God could do this without us.
He could just stand on the edges of heaven and go, all right church, go!
And suddenly everything just erupts.
But he desires to use us, his church, his people, to fulfill the calling that Jesus began while here on earth.
So I challenge you today, would you truly be devoted
Because being devoted is more than just mere affection on something.
It's a strong connection with great significant dedication to something.
It's prioritizing at a high level.
These believers weren't casual listeners.
They were building their entire lives on the word of God, the truth of God.
With that being said, I wonder again, are you devoted to God?
Are you devoted to His church?
Have you allowed your relationship with God to be more than just a weekend romance?
Are you moving toward all in devotion and dedication?
The early church did not build on emotion or opinion.
They built upon that which was unchanging, unshakeable.
They built upon the Word of God.
Now let's look at the Word of God.
Second Timothy says it this way, all scripture, in other words, the Word of God,
is inspired by God and is useful to teach us what is true and to make us realize what is wrong in our lives.
It corrects us when we are wrong and teaches us to do what is right.
God uses it to prepare and equip His people to do every good work.
I wonder today, what good work is God calling you to?
As I began to look at this scripture, there was one word that I wanna kind of dissect a little bit.
It's the word inspired.
I don't really believe that that's the best translation for what's being said here.
This word that's translated inspired, it comes from two original Greek words, Theos, which means God, and Penau, which means to breathe.
In other words, all scripture is God,
breathed.
Now, to me, that's a whole lot deeper than inspired.
I can inspire somebody.
I have found one of those personalities that can really inspire somebody.
I can get somebody exciting.
I can probably convince you to do something that you absolutely hate because I'm one of those guys with that contagious personality that can really make something that's not exciting sound really exciting.
Go on.
Anybody else like that?
There's some of you in the house.
Man, I love fireworks season.
We get to sell fireworks.
I can sell fireworks like the best of my favorite one.
Man, let me move on.
Let me move on.
So here, the word inspired is not the greatest.
It's really the word God breathed.
It literally means
Scripture is the very life and the word of God.
It's without error.
It's absolutely true.
It's trustworthy.
It's never wrong.
It's the anchor that we can hold tightly to when everything around us begins to go chaotic.
When every storm rises up against us, Timothy goes on to say that the word of God is useful.
It corrects, it teaches, and it helps us to be prepared and equipped.
for all moments in every area of life to fulfill and do the good works that God said before us.
Come on, this, the Word of God, must be the final authority in every action in every area as we build His church.
We cannot deviate from this.
If we do not build upon the foundational pillar of God's Word,
Eventually his church will drift, it will be fractured and even collapsed under the pressures of life.
And we're kind of seeing that in the religious culture in our society.
The second pillar I wanna talk about very quickly is we've gotta build on each other, a community that won't break.
Get a build on one another.
We need one.
Did you know that you need the other people in this room?
Now listen, those of you that are watching online today, I love you online.
I absolutely adore that you're choosing to watch and hang out with us.
But there's something about being in the house of God with other believers.
There's something about gathering together.
There's something encouraging.
There's something uplifting.
There's something that's inspiring as we sit in a room like this and we worship God together, as we learn together, as we're challenged together.
I wanna encourage those of you that are online.
If possible, would you come hang out with us?
Would you let God speak into your life?
Those of you in the house today, don't take this for granted.
Can I just kind of say this, don't be guilty of slipping in late and heading out early.
There's importance to conversations in the lobby.
There's something about building that relationship together.
We say it all the time here at Encounter Church.
Nobody walks alone.
This has to be more than just something we say from the platform or even where on a hat.
This has to be something that we live out.
It has to be a statement that we hold to, tightly to.
So now that it's not just a phrase, but it's a way of life.
Why?
Why is this so important?
Well, we saw it in the early church.
Acts chapter two, all the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship.
Now fellowship is not something that we hear.
We don't use that word a lot outside of the church.
But the word fellowship is vitally important.
It's the original word cornea, which means shared life, shared faith, shared purpose, shared burden.
In other words, we walk together hand in hand in good times and in bad times.
The church cannot become guilty of shooting their own.
Did you know that even church folk mess up?
Even church folk do things they shouldn't do.
Come on, I've had conversations with some of y'all.
You had moments when you had a moment.
You can define whatever you want to.
But we all, when I did that, some of you went, mm, I remember that time.
I remember when I did that.
I remember when I said that.
I remember when I went there.
I remember when that happened.
But what are you doing that moment?
You keep loving.
You keep reaching out that hand.
You keep encouraging one another.
You keep promoting one another, raising one another up.
We share life, we share faith, we share purpose, we share burdens.
with one another.
Solomon, the wisest man in the Bible, said it this way in Ecclesiastes, chapter four, two people are better off than one.
Have you ever noticed things are easier when you're not doing it by yourself?
Oh, and that's something you're like, I just like things myself that way.
It can be done the way I want it.
Get over yourself and get somebody beside you, right?
Sometimes we can allow pride to rise up in us and we think, I'll just do it myself and it'll be fine.
But could you be robbing somebody else from a growth spiritual moment?
Come on.
Two people are better off than one, for they can help each other succeed.
If one person falls, the other can reach out and help.
But someone who falls alone is in real trouble.
We give a lot of opportunities here at Encounter Church at every location for people to be connected one with another right off top of my head as I was kind of laying things out.
I thought of e-groups.
We've got our life groups, our small groups.
We've got people that are gathering together on a regular basis.
We have guys that hang out on a Friday morning breakfast.
We've got men's events.
We've got women's events.
We've got a group of ladies that come out for coffee just spending time together.
Did you know we have people that play pickleball?
They do.
I was too lazy yesterday morning to get up, but it's okay.
They played without me.
We've got a wellness group that gathers together Tuesdays and Saturdays.
Just moments of living life, sharing burdens, sharing faith, encouraging one another, enhancing purpose.
One, without, I want to encourage you, be a part of something larger
than yourself.
I mean, the moment that you begin to isolate is the moment that you begin to lose sight of what God's doing.
I can't tell you how many times over the years, numerous years of ministry that I've had people say, well, you know, I'm no longer going to go to the church because I just didn't connect with people.
Well, the problem was they would come in five minutes late, leave five minutes early and never attend any events.
You can't walk together if you don't make yourself available.
That's like saying, you know what?
I tried calling you several times, but the problem was you picked up your phone and you did this, but you never made the phone call.
We've got to make ourselves available one with another.
That means there are going to be times that you're vulnerable in your relationship, but that's where we grow together.
Not a single one of us can truly build the church
ourselves.
In fact, if we're doing spiritual math, one plus one should equal three.
Now that doesn't make sense with normal math, but that's what God's calling us to do.
We're supporting one another, one plus one, but because of that relationship, it's growing and building our relationship with Jesus Christ.
One plus one equals three.
We have accountability, we have encouragement, we have prayer, we have support, and if we find ourselves disconnected, then we will soon find ourselves overrun and ultimately defeated as a believer.
Hebrews chapter 10 says that this way, let us think of ways.
Think of ways to motivate one another.
That means this is not gonna be natural.
Our natural,
Bend is to go, you know what?
You're not self-motivated.
I don't have time for you.
That's natural, right?
Come on, anybody, don't raise your hand.
Sorry, I'm thinking of these things that I don't want you to raise your hand.
Just respond in your mind, how many of you get frustrated with laziness?
Don't raise your hand?
Yeah, most of us in the house.
Some of you are too lazy to raise your hand.
But we get frustrated, so what do we do?
We just push them off and say, you know what?
Ain't nobody got time for that.
But what would happen if we would think of ways to motivate one another?
What would happen if we would think of ways to encourage one another, to respond in love, to encourage
good works.
What would happen if we spent time, look what he goes on to slavery at 25, let us not neglect our meeting together.
What would happen if we saw purpose and devotion in this moment of gathering together, but not only here, but we call that person and we say, hey, I haven't seen you for a couple of weeks.
Well, I try to call people, but I'll be honest.
And we're running 400, which means we probably have about 600 people that call this place home.
I can't keep track of everybody.
We're all part of this family.
We all walk together.
We encourage one another.
If we desire to be a church that's built to last, we must put in the hard work.
We must lay the foundation.
We cannot be satisfied with a sand castle foundation.
Oh, the sand castles a lot more fun to build, but it doesn't take much to destroy it.
The third pillar, build around Jesus a worship centered church.
We're building upon the word of God.
We're building upon a community of believers and now we're building
upon Jesus and around Jesus.
He is the central hub, the core or the nucleus of all that we do as a church.
Like what it says in verse 42, all the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship and to sharing meals, including the Lord's supper.
They shared communion together.
They shared meals.
We read on, if you keep going, it says they worshiped together, giving glory to God.
The goal is keeping Jesus the center, letting Him truly set the atmosphere.
I don't know about you, but when I begin to seek first the kingdom of God, when I begin to seek after God before all else, it begins to create this shift in the atmosphere around me.
I can walk into a situation where it's pretty intense and it's frustrating.
People are aggravated and you begin to seek after God.
That's one reason why we have worship on a Sunday morning is to get ourselves in alignment with God, to get ourselves in placement with God so we can be receptive in this moment.
Because some of you on the way to church this morning, things got a little bit heated in the car.
Maybe the kids were poking one another.
Maybe your wife was running late getting ready so you and
into the car and you're in the garage hunk in the horn trying to get her to come down and that didn't end very well.
So we come into this place and we say, Lord, I'm going to worship you.
Lord, help me to fix my eyes upon you.
Lord, if there's anything in me that's distracting me right now, Lord, I set it to the side and I turn to you.
What I want to follow, I want God to be the very nucleus.
I want Jesus to be the foundation that we build upon our worship and our time together should not be a filler.
It should be a pillar that supports the stability of the church.
Jesus must be the center of all that we say and all that we do.
Why?
Because Colossians chapter 1 says it this way.
He, Jesus, existed before anything else, and He holds all creation together.
He sustains His church.
So if you were singing this song that we learned as kids, He holds the whole world in His hands.
We sang that time and time again in kids' church if you grew up in church, but for some reason as adults, we may remember the moment
but we don't stand on the truth.
We may remember the song, we may remember the words, but we don't apply it to our lives.
Jesus holds everything together.
So why is it that we try in our own strength to do what Jesus has already taken ownership of?
Here's the reality.
A church built on people won't last, a church built on talents won't last, but a church built on and around the presence of Jesus Christ will last the test of time.
That's the church that we want to build.
We read it last week, Jesus said, upon this rock, I will build my church, and all the powers of hell will not conquer it.
Number four, build upon God's power, a church strengthened by prayer.
Look at this, all the believers devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, and a fellowship, and a sharing of meals, including the Lord's Supper, and two prayer.
Prayer.
has to be the key.
It's what unlocks this relationship with the Father.
We believe in prayer.
It's one of our core values as a church.
We value prayer, not mere chatter.
It's not just about a conversation around a cup of coffee in the lobby, but it's spending time in prayer.
When is the last time you paused in the middle of Walmart
just to pray for somebody.
Somebody like that's weird.
Why?
Why's that weird?
As a believer, that should be natural.
We should be willing to call upon the king of kings and the Lord of lords at any moment, at any time.
Why?
Because he's presence, he's powerful, and he's able to meet every need of our lives.
We believe in prayer, not just mere chatter.
Right now we're in the middle of a 21 day prayer and fasting, and I hope and I pray that you are joining with us in this at your spending time, seeking after God that you're spending time, sacrificing something for the cause of Christ.
We have Wednesday night worship and prayer services.
We worship for about a half hour, and then we spend time seeking the face of God, believing that God's gonna pour out his spirit.
In February, we're gonna take an entire month and we're gonna talk about prayer and the importance of prayer.
Why do we pray?
We're gonna start by saying, do we have to pray?
That's week one, do I have to pray?
We're gonna talk about that in just a couple of weeks.
But too often, we move prayer merely to a segment or a spot in a service or a moment before a meal.
But truth be told,
Prayer is a source of our strength.
Without prayer, the foundation will not hold.
In the book, The Circle Maker by Pastor Mark Batterson, he says this, I wonder today, what is God desiring to birth through your prayers?
What is God's desire to do through you?
Have you allowed that conversation with God to grow and to deepen?
Have you allowed it to grow into something that seems impossible?
But as you place it in his hands, he brings it to fruition.
James chapter five says this, the earnest prayers of a righteous person has great power and produces wonderful results.
We're gonna talk about that in the month of February, but I wanna ask you right now, do you believe that?
Do you believe that the prayers, the earnest prayers of a righteous person are powerful and effective?
Now some of us discount ourselves, well, I'm not righteous.
Well, welcome to the party, my friends.
We are made righteous not because of who we are, but because of what he did.
We're placed in right standing because of Jesus Christ and the sacrifice that he made for you and for me
The Church of the Book of Acts moved in power and grew because they were people of action, people of faith.
They were people of prayer.
They petitioned heaven.
They wholly leaned upon the strength and the power of God.
Prayer is the key that opens the door to the greatness of God.
In just a short time, we will pour a foundation for a new building, but listen closely.
That's not the foundation that we're building.
That's just gonna be a venue that God uses to build His church.
Again, in the book, Circle Maker, Mark says this, prayers the inheritance we receive and the legacy we leave.
I said it earlier, some of you were here because somebody spent time praying for you when you were a delinquent.
Your prayers now.
will affect the next generation.
It's your inheritance and your legacy.
We are building not for today, but we're building for the future.
And what was the result of the pillars in the early church?
Acts 2, 47, and each day the Lord added to the fellowship, those that were being saved.
Time and time again, we see this truth
Transpire.
I want to challenge you as we're diving head first into this mindset of building his church.
I want to challenge you.
Move beyond just sitting on the sidelines, pulling the shovel.
And begin to build his church.
I believe God wants to use you.
There's some of you that doubt that.
Some of you are thinking there's no way that God could use me.
I believe that God wants to use you in ways that you can never imagine.
If you would have asked me 20 years ago, what I'd be doing today, it certainly would not be this.
This would have scared me spitless.
Cool.
Y'all Southern Missouri people, you understand what scared me spitless means.
Some of you in the front rows go, I wish he was spilless.
You're welcome.
Showers of blessing.
Showers of blessing we share.
But it's in those moments.
Wow, I really got derailed there.
I'm so sorry.
It's in those moments that we say, Lord, not my will, but your will.
Lord, I don't know what you have in store, but God, I'm willing to go.
That was my heart's cry 20 years ago.
When I got my credentials for the very first time, they asked me the question.
They said, well, what are your plans for ministry?
I said, honestly, I don't know.
What I know is right now, at that moment, I was a youth and music pastor.
I said, right now, this is what I'm doing.
When God opens up that next door, I'll step.
So one little nugget at a time, God began to lay things in front of me.
God began to prepare that way.
Would you trust him with every step?
Would you allow him to build his church while using you?
Let's pray.
God, we thank you right now for who you are.
Lord, I pray that you will speak in every person in this room.
Lord, there's not a single one of us here today that in our own ability and our own strength can build your church.
Lord, we're petros, we're the little rock.
So God, we want to build upon you on Christ, the solid rock.
Lord, we don't want to stand upon shifting sand.
We don't want to stand upon that which easily crumbles.
But Lord, we stand upon your word.
We stand upon your church.
We stand upon Jesus.
We stand upon prayer.
We believe, God, that you've got a greater thing in store.
We trust you today.
you help us?
Here we are.
Use us in Jesus' name I pray.
Amen with your heads bowed.